# Rat Killer
## Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YbkYhkqIEgU
## Description: Rat Killer is a javascript, browser-based game inspired by cookie clicker, except in Rat Killer, the big goal is getting the number of rats to 0 instead of making as much money as possible. The story is that 10 billion rats have risen from the depths of New York City and threaten to revive the Bubonic Plague. You have to kill all of them to prevent an outbreak. You start by simply clicking the rat picture to kill a rat. Doing so gives you a dollar. Once you have enough money, you can hire helpers or buy upgrades. Helpers will kill rats for you without you having to click the rat yourself. Upgrades increase multipliers that improve efficiency across the board. Once you have killed all 10 billion rats, you have won!

### Idea: When trying to think of what I wanted to make in this final-project, all I knew was that I wanted it to be some kind of game since games are what I'm passionate about and making games is the reason I'm taking Computer Science. I scrolled through the final project gallery for a while trying to gather ideas, but most weren't games and seemed boring to me. I did find one titled something along the lines of "Idle Trillionaire Simulator". This sparked the idea of making a cookie clicker like game since I saw no other cookie clickers on the gallery and I figured that it would be a good place to start in my Computer Science journey. My friend helped me come up with the idea of the cookies being rats carrying plague in New York City and ideas for the upgrades available.

### Sounds folder: This folder contains 18 different mp3 sound files, one of which gets played upon clicking the rat. Bt use of a javascript function, rat sounds 1-15 are more common than rat sounds 16-18. I decided to make them more rare since they were longer and more unusual than the rest, which are mostly just hit sounds. I added sounds to give the website more flair and a fun touch. It can be overwhelming when spamming the rat since it will play tons of sounds at once, but that's part of the fun. I also made sure the sounds can only be triggered by the player clicking the rat, not the helpers killing the rats.

### styles.css file in static: This file has the css styles I made for some of the elements in my HTML. There are only a few since I only did the ones that repeated often, but upgradeleft and upgraderight are both used very frequently, so these were necessary classes. The class aligns the upgrades on either the left or right side of the screen using the left: property. It also adds a rounded border with border-style and border-radius. Then, I used width to make all the widths even and set the padding-inline to make the text wrap a bit sooner to make it look cleaner.

### functions.js: Where I spent most of my time. This has all the javascript functions used to make the game work properly. It begins with intializing the variables, simple enough, and one dictionary labeled "shop". This contains all of the different upgrades you can purchase and their properties, such as their individual levels, price, the factor by which their price is increased, for helpers the rate they kill rats every second, each id, and only for the last two upgrades, a max upgrade count.
#### subtractrats(manual, specrate) : The first function is subtractrats which takes a boolean (manual) and an integer (specrate). The boolean, if passed false, means that the function was triggered by a helper, not the user, and so it takes the specrate, the rate at which the helper kills rats, and multiplies it by the kill mulitplier. If the boolean is true, it will instead multiply the click mulitplier by the kill multiplier and play a rat sound. It updates cash for both and then rewrites the html to show the new values. This function also checks if all rats are killed, in which case it will redirect the user to the win page.
#### numberWithCommas(x) : This is a function not written by me that will take the inputted number, x, and return the number with properly formatted commas.
#### playratnoise() : This the function I talked about previously when discussing the rat sounds. This function will roll a random number between one and a number of your choosing, held within a variable called rarechance. If the number rolled is less than the max number which you chose, it will choose between the 15 common sound files in the sounds folder. If the number lands on the number you chose, it will instead choose between 3 rarer sound files, rat16 and onward, in the sounds folder. That way, picking a number such as 15 as I have, will make the function have a ~93% chance of playing the common sounds and a ~7% of playing the rare ones.
#### upgrade(purchase) : This takes the 'shop' dictionary initialized at the top of the javascript file and updates one of the upgrades values whenever the user purchases that upgrade. It checks if you have enough cash, then levels the upgrade up, takes your money, and scales the next upgrade price. It then updates all the respective html contents to represent the new values. It then applies the upgrade by checking which upgrade it is. If the id is <= 8, it is a helper upgrade and it uses the setInterval function to call subtract rats every second, passing in false for the manual boolean and the helper's kill rate. For upgrades past id 8, it checks which upgrade it is, and applies the upgrade to the multipliers used in subtractrats. 9 ups the kill multiplier by 1, 10 ups the cash multiplier by 1, 11 ups the click multiplier by 10, and 12 ups the kill multiplier by 10. Lastly, it checks if that upgrades level has reached its max. If it has, it will remove the 'buy' button and the price and tell the user they have maxed that upgrade out.
#### scaleprice(factor, current) : This function calculates and rounds the scaled price for the upgrades. Simply enough, it takes that upgrades scale factor and multiplies it by the current price. It then rounds that price to the nearest multiple of 5 to make it look pretty before returning the new price.

#### index.html: Where all the main html is written of course. It starts by linking bootstrap, the css, and the javascript. It then titles it, gives it the big header and description, and an input of type 'image' that links to the rat photo. On click, it runs subtractrats, passing only true for the manual boolean. It then displays the amount of rats left and the amount of cash you have. Next comes each and every single helper and upgrade available. They're all divs with variously sized headers displaying the name, desc, level, and price. The level and price each have unique ids repsective to their ids in shop so the javascript can change the level and price of only the updated upgrades. They then, of course, have a buy button with its own id so it can be removed in the case the level reaches its max, and on click it runs the upgrade function, passing it's unique dictionary.

#### winner.html: Incredibly simple. Maybe too simple. This file is triggered when the number of rats reaches 0, and, as you can see, it isn't much of a spectacle. I decided I wanted to keep the win page very minimalistic, not out of laziness, but rather for comedic effect. The user went through all that trouble of clicking the rat and buying all the upgrades and when they finally get to the end, this is all their reward is. That is the main reason I went through with this design decision. If you couldn't tell by now, Rat Killer was not made to be taken seriously.

